bnasiaionaskofdstinguising

$$
\{B_{j} \}_{\alpha} \ \ \ \mathrm{v . s .} \ \ \ \{B_{j} \}_{\beta} ,
$$

(1) 上

where $j=1 , \cdots, M$ with he samplesize $M$ 

Expectation values of observables, such as order parameters, are the most common and classic choice for comparing two states $\rho_{\alpha}$ and $\rho_{\beta}$ . Even when the observable is not known apriori, discovering characteristic spatial motifs using machine learning has been powerful when the two states can be distinguished by quantities tene nantsnren oncoaoncdnoc treme of ambition for learning to characterize a state $\rho$ SHAMATACENIN AIEN $2^{N_{q}}$ pos" asoiated wit the given state $\rho$ 

$$
p ( \{b_{i} \} | \rho) , \quad i=1 , \cdots, 2^{N_{q}} , \tag{2}
$$

where $N_{q}$ is the number of qubits, from the measurement data $\{B_{j} \}$ . While the advantage of generative modeling has b explored |30-35], such modeling is ultimately restricted to relatively small systems. $\mathrm{A}$ natural middle ground would be to learn key features of the probability distribution in $\mathrm{E q}$ . $2$ through moments of the distribution. This approach can be motivated both from a purely statistical perspective and from the perspective of the analysis of local chaotic dynamics' approach to purely random evolution[15, 36, 37]

Here, we introduce the Quantum Attention Network (QuAN) shown in Fig. $1 ( \mathrm{b} )$ as a general-purpose AI for $\rho_{\alpha}$ CMELCGEN $\{B_{j} \}_{\alpha}$ SAR $[ 4 ]$ 
 $\rho_{\beta}$ 现sesisnpedt UGe
 $\{B_{j} \}_{\beta}$ 
talizes on the fact that the self-attention mechanism learns the varying significance of the correlation between words at arbitrary distances within a sentence. However, while words in a sentence form a sequence, the order of bitstrings generated by identical experiments has no meaning. Through multiple layers of self-attention blocks attending between bitstrings in a manner that is manifestly permutation invariant, the QuAN approximately learns high moments of the distribution $p ( \{b_{i} \} | \rho)$ from a finite number of samples (see SM section $\mathrm{A}$ for more detail). Furthermore, by attending to snapshots less af- $\rho_{\alpha}$ and $\rho_{\beta}$ fected by noise, the QuAN extracts target features of pure state in the presence of a finite amount of noise. In the rest of the paper, we present the design principles of the QuAN guided by the learning goals and demonstrate the QuAN's eficacy as a general-purpose AI by deploying QuAN to learn relative complexity between two states
that differ in ways that are fundamental to three frontiers: entanglement transition, chaotic dynamics, and error correction, as sketched in Fig. $1 ( \mathrm{c-e} )$ .

中 $1 ( \mathrm{b} )$ CERNsSRANs区acdGapdtedse 中司
 $\mathbb{X}_{i}$ input and outputs the machine's confidence $\alpha$  $y ( \mathrm{X}_{i} ) \in[ 0 , 1 )$ 
belonging to class
choice of $\alpha$ and $\beta$ . To attend between snapshots, we first partition the complete data consisting of $M$ snapshots into sets consisting of $N$ snapshots. Typically, we train with $7 0 \sim7 5 \%$ of data and validate with the rest (see SM section $\mathrm{C 2}$ , D2, E2 for more detail). Each set $\mathbb{X}_{i}$ then binary-valued $\mathbb{X}_{i}$ goes through three stages in sequence: convolution, en- $\mathbf{x}_{i}$ with contimuous entries A心 . The convolution
 $1 ( \mathrm{b} ) )$ 
stage incorporates local spatial features and maps the with better algebraic properties for sampling moments. In language models, the encoding stage transforms the input into an informative, learned representation. For to the $\mathrm{Q u A N}$ QuAN's encoding to target moments of $\mathbf{x}_{i}$ , we introduce Mini-Set Self-Attention Blocks (MSSABs). Unique
architecture, MSSAB is adapted from a permutation-invariant version of the transformer 38] to access high moments of the distri n in a parameter-efficient manmer. It accesses up to $2 N_{s}^{2}$ order correlations for $N_{S}$ mini-sets within one layer.

The decoder stage consists of the pooling attention block (PAB) and the single-layer perceptron that compresses all the information into the confidence output(see SM section $\mathrm{A} 4 )$ . The PAB layer learns to attend more to the snapshots with features characteristic of the target state. When the confidence is $y ( \mathbb{X}_{i} ) \, < \, 0 . 5 , ~ \mathrm{Q u A N}$ assesses the data to belong to state $\alpha$ ; otherwise, it is assessing the data to belong to state $\beta$ . We train QuAN by minimizing binary cross entropy loss between the ground truth and QuAN's prediction through Adam optimization. The multi-faceted use of attention mechanisms empowers $\mathrm{Q u A N}$ to be a versatile general-purpose AI capable of learning quantum complexity in various datasets

First, we consider the relative complexity between states with different entanglement scaling: a volun 7 scaling state and an area-law scaling state (see Fig. $1 ( \mathrm{c} ) )$ . The distinction is significant because classical computers cannot eficiently represent a general volume-law scaling state. Moreover, the change in entanglement scaling signals measurement-induced phase transitions [39 44]. Nevertheless, extraction of the entanglement scaling is often challenging since it requires randomized multi-basis varying sizes $[ 4 5 ]$ AAA
. Our key insight is that QuAN can $2 ( \mathrm{a} ) )$ learn the change in the entanglement scaling by attending between snapshots within the set (see Fig.
self-attention score for the set $\mathbb{X}_{i}$ in each self-attention block (SAB) is given by

$$
\langle Q \mathbf{x}_{i} \vert K \mathbf{x}_{i} \rangle=( Q \mathbf{x}_{i} ) {( K \mathbf{x}_{i} )}^{T} \tag{3}
$$

up to normalization, where $\mathbf{x}_{i}$ is convolved from the snapshot set $\mathbb{X}_{i}$ as shown in Fig. $1 ( \mathrm{b} ) ; \; Q , K$ are two trainable transformation matrices, red to as query $( Q )$ and key $\left( K \right)$ (See SM section A3a for more detail.). When two $Z$ -basis snapshots are related by simultaneous bit-fips at a pair of qubits $( j , k )$ , the attention score reflects the correlation $\langle X_{j} X_{k} \rangle$ which is upper-bounded by sermn nanmrcon $\left[ 4 6 \right]$ (see Fig. $2 ( \mathrm{a} )$ and also SM
 $\mathrm{C 5} )$ . Hence, QuAN can access Pauli $\mathit{X}$ correlations from $Z$ -basis measurement through inter-snapshot attention. In an area-law state, a $\mathit{X}$ correlation is concentrated between nearby qubits. On the other hand in a volume-law state, the entanglement of each qubit tbrscwdngdcrcsdaucnunesdn $\mathit{X}$ correlation. attentions, Qu $\mathit{X}$ correlation through inter-snapshot tion from just $Z$ CANnanacnda nde

To verify QuAN's potential for witnessing the entanglement transition from the $Z$ -basis measurements, we turn to coherent-like states prepared to be superposition of hard-core Bose Hubbard model energy eigenstates reached through a driven Hamiltonian

$$
\begin{aligned} {H / \hbar} & {{}=\sum_{\langle j , k \rangle} J_{j k} \hat{\sigma}_{j}^{+} \hat{\sigma}_{k}^{-}+\frac{\delta} {2} \sum_{j} \hat{\sigma}_{j}^{z}+\Omega\sum_{j} ( \alpha_{j} \hat{\sigma}_{j}^{-}+\mathrm{h . c .} ) \, ,} \\ \end{aligned}
$$

(4)

and $\hat{\sigma}_{j}^{z}$ implemented using a superconducting, t $2 ( \mathrm{b} ) )$ . Here, $\hat{\sigma}_{j}^{+} ( \hat{\sigma}_{j}^{-} )$  $j$ ; $J_{j k}$ 
represents the Pauli $\mathit{Z}$ M $j$ quantum simulator (see Fig. represents the raising (lowering) operator on qubit at site the particle exchange interaction strength between site $j$ and $k$ of average value $J , \, \delta$ is the detuning between the drive and qubit frequency, and $\mathrm{C 1}$ rea adg Hededaodo
 $\Omega$ 
(see SM section $\delta/ J$ and that of states at the pares a coherent-like superposition $\delta/ J$ , the system pre-of the spectrum for small ates at the center edge of the spectrum for large $\delta/ J$ [45]. Bipartite entanglement entropy calculated from subsystem tomography using subsystem measurements in an informationally complete basis set found the volume law scaling at low values of $| \delta| / J$ the area law scaling at large values of $| \delta| / J$ (see Fig. $2 ( \mathrm{c} ) )$ . Here, we use the experimental snapshots of the en ystem in the particle number basis, which maps to $Z$ -basis measurements in the hard-core limit over a range of $\delta/ J$ 

To investigate QuAN's capability and the role of attention in witnessing the entanglement transition, we compared the performance of three different architectures with varying degrees of attention. The simplest architecture is the Set MultiLayer Perceptron (SMLP) with- $2 ( \mathrm{d} ) )$ . out the self and pooling attention blocks (see Fig.
The SMLP is a generalization of the usual multilayer perception $[ 4 7 ]$ designed to take a set of snapshots as input and learn the positional information through convolution. We set the mini-set size for the other two architectures to $N_{s}=1$ , which reduces the MSSAB to a single SAB. $\mathrm{Q u A N_{2}}$ and $\mathrm{Q u A N_{4}}$ each access up to the 2nd and 4th moments through SAB layers (see SM section A3d),

The task for the three architectures is to witness the change in the entanglement scaling upon increase in $\delta/ J$ by training the models to distinguish the $\delta/ J=0$ state from the $\delta/ J \,=\, 2$ state using snapshots with the same number $n=8$ , see SM section $\mathrm{C 2}$ ) of bosons. All three architectures were trained and tested using $M=6 9 6 3 2$ experimental snapshots from $\delta/ J=0$ and the same num-bercrarnatrnoaom $\delta/ J=\pm2$ with the binary label: $y=1$ for data from $\delta/ J=0$ with volume-law entanglement and $y=0$ for data from $\delta/ J=\pm2$ with area-law

$$
\quad\mathrm{e n t a n g l e m e n t} .
$$

Fig. $2 ( \mathrm{e-g} )$ compares the performance of the three architectures based on 10 independent trainings for each architecture. When an architecture learns to witness the entanglement transition, average confidence $\overline{{y}}=\langle y ( {\mathbb{X}_{i}} ) \rangle_{i}$  $\delta/ J ~=~ 2$ should span between $\overline{{y}}=1$ at $\delta/ J ~=~ 0$ and $\overline{{y}}=0$ at
(see SM section $\mathrm{C 3} )$ . Fig. $2 ( \mathrm{e} )$ shows SMLP
arn the entanglement transition, given the average confidence remaining flat at $\overline{{y}}=0 . 5$ independent of set size $N$ (see Fig. $2 ( \mathrm{e} ) )$ . By contrast, $\mathrm{Q u A N_{2}}$ , which only uses second moments of bit strings, already learns the entanglement transition once a set structure is used. and see SM section $\mathrm{C} 4 )$ Moreover, its learning improves with increasing set size $2 ( \mathrm{f} )$ within the bounds of the total sample size (see Fig.
. Accessing up to the fourth moment, QuA $\mathrm{N_{4}}$ shows sharper transition with reduced error bars across different training The above comparison showcases the QuAN's ability to witness changes in entanglement scaling using $Z$ -basis measurements alone through inter-snapshot attention.

Next, we move on to learning the relative state complexity between shallow and deep random circuit states: Pethllow V.s. Pdeep. The random circuits have become a theoretical paradigm for studying diverse sets of phenomena in quantum dynamics from information processing in black holes $[ 4 8 ]$ to quantum chaos and thermaliza-tion $[ 1 5 , ~ 4 9-5 1 ]$ . Despite being composed of local gates (see Fig $3 ( \mathrm{a} ) )$ , the ensemble of random circuits accurately approximates the ensemble of global random unitary transformations up to the first $k$ -moments, where $k$ grows with the depth of the circuit [36]. Furthermore, Ref. [15] established that such random circuits' complexity would grow linearly with $k$ . We aim to learn the evolution of state complexity in random circuits as a function of depth by employing QuAN for multiple pairwise classification tasks that contrast data from variable depth $d$ with data from $d \,=\, 2 0$ . Training QuAN to perform this classification probes its ability to learn higher-order features of the bit-string data, like aspects of the third and higher moments of the bit-string distribution $[ 1 5 ]$ , that reflect the relative complexity of the state at depth $d$ compared to the state at depth $d ~=~ 2 0$ . We anticipate such relative complexity will shrink with increasing depth $d$ . To coalesce QuAN's learning across different training runs for each depth, we study the classification accuracy defined as the percentage of correctly classified inputs $[ 5 2 ]$ .

While previous experiments primarily focused on deep circuits pushing against the limits of classical simulation, we systematically explore the increase in complexity as depth increases. We consider both experimen-each circuit depth $d$ AS for experimental details) and data from the correspond- $N_{c} ~=~ 5 0$ ing pure state implemented on classical hardware. At
,we sample
cuit instances. For each circuit instance, we collect $M_{s} ~=~ {M \mathord{\left/ {\vphantom{M {N_{c}}}} \right. \kern-\nulldelimiterspace} {N_{c}}} ~=~ 5 0 0 , 0 0 0$ bit-strings ( $M_{s} ~=~ 2 , 0 0 0$ , 000 for $N_{q}=3 6 )$ . To prevent QuAN from over-fitting a specific circuit instance, we train QuAN using data from 70% of all the circuit instances and reserve the remaining 30% circuits for testing (see SM section D2.) We batch bitstrings fbitstringsircuit instance into sets of $N$ bit-strings,bitstringsated in Fig. $3 ( \mathrm{b} )$ . See SM Section D3 for more details on training al sting,

We benchmark the QuAN's learning of relative complexity at each circuit depth $d$ against the depth dependence of the linear cross entropy benchmark (XEB). The linear XEB, ${\mathcal F}_{\mathrm{X E B}}$ , for a collection of bit-strings $\{B_{j} \}$ is defined by

$$
\mathcal{F}_{\mathrm{X E B}} [ \{B_{j} \} ]=2^{N_{q}} \langle p_{U} ( B_{j} ) \rangle_{j}-1 , \tag{5}
$$

whno $p_{U} ( B_{j} )$ is the probability for the given bit-string $d$ 中 $B_{j}$ to be sampled from an ideal pure state $\mathit{U}$ of depth $U | 0 \rangle^{\otimes N_{q}}$  $\{B_{j} \}$ the random unitary circuit
D1b for detail). We first study the depth-dependent
tive complexity of the ideal pure-state data. When ${\mathcal{F}}_{\mathrm{X E B}} [ \{B_{j} \} ]$ is sampled from the same ideal pure state,
measures the second moment of the bit-string
associated with the pure state. As shown in Fig. $3 ( \mathrm{c} )$ , the XEB for such bit-string cbitstringsaturates the infinite depth asymptotic value of $d=8$ foral semsztsconsierd, $d ~=~ 8$ .The cision near depth $\mathcal{F}_{X E B}=1$ to polynomial pre becoming blind to circuit dynamics past
relative complexity learned by QuAN quantified through classification accuracy shrinks upon increasing depth as expected, approaching the vanishing relative complexity at 50% accuracy of the classification task. Nevertheless, TO中 $\mathrm{Q u A N_{5 0}}$ SI7 $d=8$ (see SM section A3) learns the relative complexity of $3 ( \mathrm{d} ) )$ 
for all system sizes (see Fig.
the classification accuracy at $d=8$ shows promising sub-exponential scaling with the increase in the system size (see SM section D4 for more detail.)

Comparing various architectures' learning of relative complexity at depth $d ~=~ 8$ shown in Fig. $3 ( \mathrm{e} )$ reveals how dificult this task is for most architectures. Despite all having the same number of hyper-parameters, architectures other than QuAN failed to learn the relative complexity of $d ~=~ 8$ and 20. Notably, the failure of three architectures that took individual bit-strings bitstringsthout forming a set structure (the MLP, the convolutional neural network (CNN), and the standard transformer (Transf.), see SM section B) establishes the importance of the set structure for learning relative complexity. The failure of the SMLP and pooling attention block (PAB) shows that using a set structure is not enough without self-attention. With just a single layer of $d ~=~ 8 ~ \left( \mathrm{Q u A N_{2}} \right)$ nansgr daixnconrbran doto
 $3 ( \mathrm{e} ) )$ 
50th moment, QuAN5o's accuracy shoots up to demonstrate the benefit of MSSAB accessing higher moments. In the rest of the paper, we focus on the performance of $\mathrm{Q u A N_{5 0}}$ with a single MSSAB block ( $L=1 )$ containing $N_{s}=5$ mini-sets.

m上snsNe区ncsosRo SEsdcndaelaoa is turther pronouned when the bit-stins istrings, $\{B_{j} \}$ , are experimentally sampled. For such data, the XEB ${\mathcal{F}}_{\mathrm{X E B}} [ \{B_{j} \} ]$ estimates the correspondence between experimental snapshots and the snapshot distribution of the ideal circuit up to second order. As shown in $\mathrm{F i g . \, 3 ( f )} , \mathcal{F}_{\mathrm{X E B}} [ \{B_{j} \} ]$ for the experimental data smoothly evolves to $0$ , reflecting the increase in noise with increasing depth which pushes the system closer to the maximally mixed state rather than the intended pure state. Dominated by the noise, FxEB on experimental data does not reveal the increase in complexity driven by the intended unitary evolution. QuAN also confirms the significant influence of increasing noise when the depth-dependence of relative complexity is probed by training and testing QuAN entirely on experimental data (see SM section $\mathrm{D}$ ). The key question is whether learning the remnants of the pure state dynamics from noisy experimental data is possible.

One way to learn the aspect of relative complexity that corresponds to pure state dynamics from the experimental data is to quantify the relative complexity of experimental bit strings using QuAN trained on noiseless pure state data. Surprisingly, the depth-dependence of the pure-state-trained QuAN's classification accuracy of experimental data in Fig. $3 ( \mathrm{g} )$ shows a trend that closely follows corresponding depth-dependence in its inspection of the noiseless simulated data shown in $\mathrm{F i g . \, 3 ( d )}$ . Specifically, both exhibit a transition at depth $d=1 0$ . Hence, $\mathrm{Q u A N}$ was able to reveal traces of pure-state complexity evolution from noisy experimental data.

Overcoming noise in relative complexity learning is particularly important for noisy states from error-correcting codes. As the quantum hardware approaches the breakeven point, the community is increasingly focused on learning topological order, a phase of matter which supports quantum error-correction, in a mixed state [12, 53-57]. Earlier literature on the complexity of topological states focused on the relative complexity
logical states compared to a simple product state $| 0 \rangle^{\otimes N_{q}}$ . It is known that topological states' relative complexity with respect to $| 0 \rangle^{\otimes N_{q}}$ grows linearly with the system size. However, less is known about the relative complexity between a topological state and an undecodably noised state.

One leading candidate for fault-tolerant quantum memory is the toric code or $\mathbb{Z}_{2}$ topological order. In its ideal ground state $| \mathrm{T C} \rangle$  $Z$ -loop operator around
a closed
a loop $\gamma$ ， $Z_{\mathrm{c l o s e d}} ( \gamma) \, \equiv\, \prod_{i \in\gamma} Z_{i}$ , has length-independent expectation

$$
\langle\mathrm{T C} | Z_{\mathrm{c l o s e d}} ( \gamma) | \mathrm{T C} \rangle=1 . \tag{6}
$$

Infinitesimal noise introduces tension to the above loop operator expectation value, resulting in its exponential decay with the loop perimeter [58], as it is illustrated in Fig. $1 ( \mathrm{e} )$ for incoherent noise. Hence any amount of noise destroys topological order from the loop tension perspective. Nevertheless, mapping the limiting cases to statistical mechanics models reveals hidden phase transitions. Specifically, with just the coherent noise $g_{X}$ mod-