to the problem -can help balancexporation wit onvergence but wil nt gncalize cosal listaces ot me proboem esmaet a., 200). Huthermore, since $\mathrm{S A}$ is a stochastic method, multiple independent runs are typically performed to increase the ikeloodofnd ng anerotmal o olal pimlsoltio.

## 2.2. Gurobi Optimizer

Asa cassical. xact optimization baslin,. e emloy th omecialslve urobi Optimizer (Gurobi Optimization LLC (202)) a state-of-the-art mixed-integer programming soler widely used in operations research and industy. Although Gurobi implements branch-and-bound and cutting-plane methods that can, in principle, achieve opimai,.inhs wk esiw th raial sopin criteia baed on tme imis,in accordance with th ettings adopted for the other methods. Heuristic components were kept enabled to aceratethe identification of good feasible solutions, which may introduce some variability across runs, but des not aler the solver's fundamental character. Ate thsintial introducin, . wil rfer to t timl as Strobi.

## 2.3. D-mae's anm main a tborid Sovers

Quatn Anneing is a quntum methuisi based on the adiabatic evolution of a quantum system toward the minimum of a cost function (McGeoch, 2014). In recent yeas, quantum anneles hav ben applied to small and intermediate-scale problems. enabling proof-of-concept in many operational problems, such as scheduling (Rieffel et al., 014; t n ai, 201, traffi fo eakat t a., 2017; nouet a., 2021). and vehicle routing (el et al., 201: rie et al, .019).

A pracical mplenation of $\mathrm{Q A}$ is provided by D-Wave Ssts, whose uatum processors can address problems expressed as Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization (QUBO) Hamionians (G o e tal., 202 n this class f Hamitonians, the cost function to be minimized must be written in the form

$$
H_{P}=\sum_{i} h_{i} x_{i}+\sum_{i > j} J_{i j} x_{i} x_{j} , \tag{2}
$$

ene oasgngthetofifetecteles andi itemcdae aues.,rflecing h rority ofthese iems eing alocaed toether omared to other pis.

In realwrd werehouses, each shelf $m$ may alrady contain $P_{m}$ peviosy al-cated items. To account for preferences between new items and pre-allocated items, we inrodeaion maningpames $\lambda_{\alpha\tau}^{( m )} \: \mathrm{f o r} \: ( \tau=1 , \ldots, P_{m} ) .$ whc quaniy he priority of allocating item $\alpha$ to shelf $m$ relative to the existing items. Thus, if iem c is placed on shelf $m$ , the sum of all the interactions between $\alpha$ and the pre-allocateditems ksamwe $\sum_{\tau=1}^{P_{m}} \lambda_{\alpha\tau}^{( m )}$ 

We inert the matching arameter s cost vales to opimiz he distribution of new items across the available shelves, prioritizing the joint alcation of fiems fre-quenty requested together and therebyrducig te likeihood of fuure reinsertions. Thi way, the cost of assigning new items to a single shelf $m$ consists of two terms: the sum of matching parametrs betwen pairs of newly allocated iems $( \lambda_{\alpha\beta} )$ and the sum of matching parameters between each new item and the items already present on that sef $( \lambda_{\alpha\tau}^{( m )} )$ nsostsesdas

$$
\Lambda_{m}=\sum_{\substack{\alpha, \beta=1 \, ( \alpha> \beta)}}^{N} \lambda_{\alpha\beta} x_{\alpha}^{m} x_{\beta}^{m}+\sum_{\alpha=1}^{N} \sum_{\tau=1}^{P_{m}} \lambda_{\alpha\tau}^{( m )} x_{\alpha}^{m} . \tag{4}
$$

heobeive is to minitat otaros a hales. hecby romting al locations in which items frequently requested together are placed on the same shelf Fomaly, he objectivefuncion isgien by

$$
\Lambda=\sum_{m=1}^{M} \Lambda_{m} , \tag{5}
$$

subject to the conditions that (i) each of the $N$ tesnuts bealoaed to exaty one sel, and ti the cacit constantst tinei in . ) mst e saisied

of the form $H_{P}=H_{A}+H_{B}+H_{C}$ .where

$$
H_{A}=A \sum_{\alpha=1}^{N} \left( 1-\sum_{m=1}^{M} x_{\alpha}^{m} \right)^{2} ,
$$

(6a)

$$
H_{B}=B \sum_{m=1}^{M} \left( \sum_{\begin{matrix} {\alpha, \beta=1} \\ {( \alpha> \beta)} \\ \end{matrix}}^{N} \lambda_{\alpha\beta} x_{\alpha}^{m} x_{\beta}^{m}+\sum_{\alpha=1}^{N} \sum_{\tau=1}^{P_{m}} \lambda_{\alpha\tau}^{( m )} x_{\alpha}^{m} \right) ,
$$

(6b)

$$
\begin{aligned} {H_{C}} & {{}=C \sum_{m=1}^{M} \left( \sum_{\alpha=1}^{N} v_{\alpha} x_{\alpha}^{m}+\langle\pmb2 | \pmb a_{m} \rangle-R_{m} \right)^{2} .} \\ \end{aligned}
$$

(6c)

Each term in $H_{P}$ enforcs a requren f ha allocation task. The coefcients $\mathit{A}$ , $B$ , and $C$ act as penalty parameters that balance constraint satisfaction and objective minimization. $H_{A}$ penalizes solutions in which any item $\alpha$ is cter allcaed t mutipl shelves or none, thereby enforcing that each item is assigned to exactly one shelf. $H_{B}$ follows from Eq. (5) and represents the cost $\Lambda$ to be minimized, favoring allocations in which items frequently requested together are assigned to the same shelves. Finally. $H_{C}$ penalizes solutions that violate the capacity constraints in Ea. (3). The term $\langle{\bf2} | {\boldsymbol a}_{m} \rangle=$  $\sum_{l=0}^{\Omega_{m}} 2^{l} a_{l}^{m}$  $\Omega_{m}=\lfloor\operatorname{l o g}_{2} R_{m} \rfloor$  $a_{l}^{m}$ whc are introduced t transform the cpacy constaints into equalities $\mathrm{-a}$ common technique to make optimization models that use inequalities compatible with QUBO formulations. In our formulation, these slack variables act as virtual items with value $v_{\alpha}=2^{l}$ resnin th unusd orionfhe shrl aiy,alwinthe nculiy o be rewritten as an equality in QUBO form while ensuring that shelf limits are respected. Together, these terms ensure that every item is uniquely assigned, capacity limits are respected, and the ovral allcation ot is mimimized.

The parameters $A , B$ and $C$ must eced to nsure thatconstraint olaion are correctly penaized. This can be achieved by setting $\mathit{A}$ and $\mathit{C}$ significantly larger than $B$ . Aditional adiustments may be needed to obtain hig-qulity solutions depending on the meteuistic used to apply thestratey. Since $H_{P}$ is formulated as a QUBO, it