## Variational Quantum Self-Organizing Map

Amol Deshmukh 1, ∗

1 IBM Quantum, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, NY, USA

(Dated: April 7, 2025)

We propose a novel quantum neural network architecture for unsupervised learning of classical and quantum data based on the kernelized version of Kohonen's self-organizing map. The central idea behind our algorithm is to replace the Euclidean distance metric with the fidelity between quantum states to identify the best matching unit from the low-dimensional grid of output neurons in the self-organizing map. The fidelities between the unknown quantum state and the quantum states containing the variational parameters are estimated by computing the transition probability on a quantum computer. The estimated fidelities are in turn used to adjust the variational parameters of the output neurons. Unlike O ( N 2 ) circuit evaluations needed in quantum kernel estimation, our algorithm requires O ( N ) circuit evaluations for N data samples. Analogous to the classical version of the self-organizing map, our algorithm learns a mapping from a high-dimensional Hilbert space to a low-dimensional grid of lattice points while preserving the underlying topology of the Hilbert space. We showcase the effectiveness of our algorithm by constructing a two-dimensional visualization that accurately differentiates between the three distinct species of flowers in Fisher's Iris dataset. In addition, we demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on quantum data by creating a two-dimensional map that preserves the topology of the state space in the Schwinger model and distinguishes between the two separate phases of the model at θ = π .

## I. INTRODUCTION

Investigations into the inner workings of the biological neural networks continue to inspire novel, non-von Neumann architecture-based techniques of computation. Artificial neural networks are the prime and very successful examples of such techniques that have revolutionized the way large datasets are processed for problems in pattern recognition and machine learning [1, 2]. Artificial neural networks have demonstrated significant utility across a wide range of scientific disciplines, such as neuroscience, physics, material science, logistics, and finance, among others [3-7].

Inspired by the competitive learning rules of the locally ordered neurons in the cerebral cortex responsible for the 'associative memory' formation in the brain [8-11]; and in an attempt to capture and formalize their learning abilities, Kohonen introduced the idea of self-organizing map (SOM) [12, 13]. SOM can be conceived as a twolayered feedforward neural network with all-to-all connections from the input layer to the neurons in the output layer. It has been extensively studied and used as a tool for unsupervised machine learning tasks, such as clustering, dimensionality reduction, and for constructing lowdimensional topology-preserving visualizations of highdimensional datasets. SOMs have been very successfully applied for a variety of use cases in finance, engineering, natural language processing, sociology, etc. [14-16].

Typically, training SOMs on large datasets is a timeconsuming and costly process. Moreover, if the data has a sufficiently complicated structure, SOMs may be unable to uncover the hidden structure within those datasets. Utilizing efficient algorithms or hardware accelerators, such as GPUs, to expedite the training of SOMs has been the subject of numerous research studies [1719]. How does new hardware, such as a quantum processor, improve or alter the nature of this machine learning algorithm, is the next question that naturally arises.

[∗ amol.deshmukh@ibm.com](mailto:amol.deshmukh@ibm.com)

Quantum machine learning techniques which use quantum processors, instead of a classical (either a CPUbased or a GPU-based) computer have recently risen into prominence. Quantum machine learning refers to the emergent field of study that analyzes the applications of quantum algorithms for machine learning tasks on either classical or quantum data [20, 21]. The holy grail of this field is to find algorithms that can provide a quantum advantage over classical machine learning techniques on either classical or quantum data [22-24] (although this is a debated topic, see [25]). The term quantum advantage can encompass multiple aspects, including the speed-up achieved by the quantum algorithms (time complexity), the sample requirements for training and inference (sample complexity), or the performance metrics of the models [26-29].

A plethora of quantum machine learning algorithms has been created for supervised machine learning tasks, including classification, regression, and feature selection, encompassing both fault-tolerant devices as well as nearterm quantum computers [30-32]. Numerous approaches for unsupervised learning have also been suggested; however, they tend to be either fault-tolerant or linear in nature [33-36], though certain studies have addressed both limitations [37]. The current constraints on the number of qubits and the occurrence of gate errors further confine us to hybrid quantum-classical machine learning methodologies. To address these deficiencies in the literature, this work presents a novel unsupervised quantum machine learning technique that draws inspiration from Ko- honen's self-organizing map concept. We utilize principles from quantum kernel approaches to identify the best matching unit on quantum computers. The design of our quantum neural network is directly motivated by the architectural framework of the classical self-organizing map (SOM).

Additionally, we are motivated by another relevant question concerning the representation of quantum states [38-40]. The pertinent issue is the depiction of states produced by quantum computers. Is there a more efficient method for visualizing quantum states with exceedingly large dimensions? One may contemplate augmenting the method to discern the topological structure intrinsic to quantum data, which may be produced from the simulations of quantum many-body systems. An unsupervised machine learning algorithm may assist in identifying distinct phases of such systems [41-46]. A low-dimensional map can be created that may correspond to different phases of these many-body systems. A similar study has already been performed with classical self-organizing maps [47]. In this context, we apply our method to the Schwinger model, a simplified representation of quantum electrodynamic interactions in 1 + 1-dimensional spacetime.

The paper is organized as follows. In section II, we provide the necessary background information and outline our framework. We introduce the original version of Kohonen's self-organizing map, along with its modified version designed to operate in kernel space. This section will also establish the notations used throughout the work. In section III, we introduce the proposed algorithm: the variational quantum self-organizing map or Variational QSOM . In section IV, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm on a classical data set (Fisher's Iris data). Additionally, the phase space of the Schwinger model at θ = π is analyzed using the proposed algorithm. Finally, in section V, we discuss the theoretical aspects such as runtime complexity, robustness, and possible extensions of our algorithm.

## II. BACKGROUND

In order to understand self-organizing maps (SOMs), it is helpful to provide a concise overview of the basic concepts of artificial neural networks as a whole, and then explain the unique features of SOMs within this context. There are three main types of biologically inspired artificial neural networks which are primarily studied in the deep learning literature: signal-transfer networks , state-transfer networks , and competitive-learning networks [13]. Layered feed-forward neural networks such as multilayer perceptrons and convolutional neural networks are some of the well-known examples of the signal-transfer networks. In these types of neural networks, the output signal has a unique dependence on the input signal. Learning in these networks is governed by the error-correcting back-propagation algorithms. State- transfer networks, on the other hand, are based on relaxation effects. The strong nature of the feedbacks and non-linearities in these networks drives the internal states of the neurons to stable fixed points in the phase space. Hopfield networks and Boltzmann machines are exemplary networks from this category. The learning of these networks is governed by Hebbian learning or Boltzmann learning rules [48, 49]. As the name suggests, the learning of the networks in the third category is governed by competitive learning. The neurons in the output layer receive identical input information from the input layer, and they compete in their activities. Through lateral interactions, one of the neurons becomes the 'winner' and suppresses the activities of all the other neurons in the output layer. The winner neurons alternate depending on the received input. Once trained, different sections of the networks become sensitive to different parts of the vectorial input signals.

Based on such competitive learning rules, Kohonen introduced the idea of self-organizing maps inspired by the biological semantic or topographic maps created in the mammalian brain. SOMs have been used as a tool for unsupervised ML tasks, such as clustering, dimensionality reduction, and for learning a low-dimensional topologypreserving representation of the high-dimensional data sets.

## A. Kohonen's self-organizing map

Kohonen's map or self-organizing map (SOM) is a type of competitive-learning network which is widely used for unsupervised learning. SOM is composed of two layers, an input layer and an output layer. The input layer feeds a data sample from the high-dimensional dataset x ∈ Ω, whereas the output layer consists of a lattice of neurons { l 1 , . . . l k } ∈ L arranged in a particular topology, for example, a rectangular or hexagonal grid. To each lattice point in the grid is associated a weight vector w i ∈ Ω. The main objective of the self-organizing map is to learn the topology-preserving map κ ( x ) from a high dimensional continuous space Ω (usually R N , where N corresponds to the dimensionality of x ) to a low-dimensional lattice space L of k neurons

$$\kappa ( x ) \colon \Omega \rightarrow L .$$

The learning of this mapping, with the help of data, proceeds in three iterative steps as follows (see Fig. 1). In the first step, a sample x is selected randomly from the data. The second step comprises of finding the neuron l ∗ (i.e. l i ∗ ), termed best matching unit (BMU) , which is closest to x . This is achieved by calculating the similarity score between x and the weight vector w i associated with each neuron l i ∈ L

$$| | x - w _ { i ^ { * } } ^ { t } | | = \min _ { i } \left \{ | | x - w _ { i } ^ { t } | | \right \} , \quad ( 2 )$$

where, superscript t indicates t th iteration. Typically one uses Euclidean metric to calculate the similarity score;

in principle however other distance metrics can also be used. In the final step, only those neurons which lie in the neighbourhood of the winning neuron, defined by h ( l i , l ∗ ) are activated and the weights w i corresponding to those neurons are updated as follows:

$$w _ { i } ^ { t + 1 } = w _ { i } ^ { t } + \alpha ^ { t } h ^ { t } ( x - w _ { i } ^ { t } ) ,$$

where, h t ( l ∗ , l i ) is the neighbourhood function and α t is the learning rate. The explicit dependance of t in both the learning rate α and neighborhood function h ( l ∗ , l i ) reflects the fact that these are iteration dependent quantities and are usually artificially reduced in magnitude at each iteration. Intuitively, the neurons that are closest to the BMU are updated in the direction of the sample x , whereas the neurons which are far away from BMU are updated the least. Along with the learning rate α , the form of the neighborhood function is a hyperparameter of the algorithm, but usually the Gaussian functional form

$$h ( d _ { i j } ) = \exp \left ( - \, \frac { d _ { i j } ^ { 2 } } { 2 \sigma ^ { 2 } } \right ) , \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \$$

is preferred. Here, d ij refers to the distance between the nodes l i and l j . The completion of the training process results in a map κ ( x ) from the high-dimensional space Ω to the lattice space of neurons L , which preserves the topological structure present in Ω. During the inference phase, the weights of the neural network are not updated. Instead, the appropriate BMU l ∗ is picked for a given data sample x .

In contrast to the alternative methods of dimensionality reduction, SOM exhibits non-parametric and nonlinear mapping characteristics. The algorithm is robust, the learning is time-efficient, and the outlines of the map are developed quickly [50].

## B. Kernelized self-organizing map

Kohonen's original method was refined by Andras by integrating scenarios in which the original data vector must be projected into a higher-dimensional feature space in order to accurately identify the best matching unit [51]. Kernel methods, a well-known concept in the field of machine learning, are used in this improved algorithm.

Kernel approaches are prevalent in pattern recognition, machine learning, and artificial intelligence [52]. They are very useful for distinguishing between non-linearly separable classes of data points. The fundamental principle behind kernel methods is that the Euclidean inner product between two data vectors (as seen in the preceding algorithm) can be replaced with an equivalent inner product in a higher-dimensional feature space. The simple substitution

$$x _ { i } . x _ { j } \rightarrow k ( x _ { i } , x _ { j } ) = \phi ( x _ { i } ) . \phi ( x _ { j } ) ,$$

FIG. 1. A snapshot of the (classical) self-organizing map during the training phase. First, the weights are randomly initialized and then the best matching unit (BMU) is found (here, l 18 ) by calculating the Euclidean distance between x and all the weights { w 1 , . . . , w k } , see Eq. (2). The weights in the neighbourhood (here represented by a red circle) of the winning neuron are updated using the update rule specified in Eq. (3).

<!-- image -->

essentially allows one to explore the higher dimensional spaces ϕ ( x ) without explicitly constructing the mapping between the original Euclidean space to the higher dimensional space. Kernel approaches excel when the inner product of two data vectors can be calculated more efficiently than the calculation of the explicit higher dimensional map.

Andras observed that the updates of the weight vectors do not need to take place in higher dimensional spaces. The observations made were as follows: In Kohonen's original implementation, the update rule for the weights in the self-organizing map has an alternative interpretation of the minimization of the || x -w i || 2 , which can be seen as:

$$w _ { i } ^ { t + 1 } = w _ { i } ^ { t } - \bar { \alpha } ^ { t } h ^ { t } \frac { \partial } { \partial w _ { i } } \left [ | | x - w _ { i } ^ { t } | | ^ { 2 } \right ] .$$

Now, consider the mapping of a data vector x to a higher dimensional space Ψ( x ) ∈ Ω. All the weight vectors w i 's will also be mapped to the same higher dimensional space Ψ( w i ) ∈ Ω. The next step consists of minimizing the distance between the data vector and the weight vectors mapped to the higher dimensional spaces, i.e.

$$\begin{array} { c c } y \\ y & | | \Psi ( x ) - \Psi ( w _ { i ^ { * } } ^ { t } ) | | = \min _ { i } \Big \{ | | \Psi ( x ) - \Psi ( w _ { i } ^ { t } ) | | \Big \} . \quad ( 7 ) \\ \end{array}$$

The distance between the two higher dimensional vectors can be expressed in terms of the kernel function as

$$\begin{array} { r l } & { \sin ^ { - } } & { | | \Psi ( x ) - \Psi ( w ) | | ^ { 2 } = \langle \Psi ( x ) - \Psi ( w ) , \Psi ( x ) - \Psi ( w ) \rangle } \\ & { = K ( x , x ) + K ( w , w ) - 2 K ( x , w ) , } \\ & { ( 5 ) } \end{array}$$

where, K ( x , y ) = ⟨ Ψ( x ) , Ψ( y ) ⟩ . Following the gradient descent procedure for the minimization of this distance, we arrive at the following rule for the updates of the weights in the kernelized self-organizing map:

$$w _ { i } ^ { t + 1 } = w _ { i } ^ { t } - \alpha ^ { t } h ^ { t } \left ( \frac { \partial } { \partial w _ { i } } K ( w , w ) \right | _ { w _ { i } ^ { t } } - 2 \frac { \partial } { \partial w _ { i } } K ( x , w ) \Big | _ { w _ { i } ^ { t } } \right ) .$$

The completion of the training process results in a map κ ( x ) from the high-dimensional space Ω to L

$$\kappa ( \Psi ( x ) ) \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { N } \rightarrow \Omega \rightarrow L ,$$

which preserves the topological structure present in Ω. In the inference phase, similar to the original version of the algorithm, the weights are no longer updated; instead, the appropriate BMU for a data sample x is chosen. It was demonstrated that the kernelized version of the algorithm exhibited superior performance compared to the original version. This can be attributed to its ability to accurately identify the BMU in higher-dimensional spaces [51].

## III. VARIATIONAL QUANTUM SELF-ORGANIZING MAPS

Equipped with the understanding of the classical selforganizing map in section II A and its kernelized counterpart in section II B, we are now ready to discuss the variational quantum self-organizing map (variational QSOM) for the unsupervised learning of the classical and quantum data.

Similar to the classical self-organizing map, variational QSOM is composed of two layers, an input layer and an output layer. The input layer feeds a data sample from the quantum dataset ρ ( x ) ∈ B ( H ), whereas the output layer consists of a lattice of neurons { l 1 , . . . l k } ∈ L arranged in a particular topology, for example, a rectangular or hexagonal grid, as shown in Fig. 2. ρ ( x ) corresponds to either the quantum data sample generated from a quantum computer or a classical data sample mapped to a quantum state via a quantum feature map, given by

$$\Phi \colon x \rightarrow \rho ( x ) = | U ( x ) \rangle \langle U ^ { \dagger } ( x ) | , \quad ( 1 1 ) \quad _ { p r o o }$$

where U ( x ) is a unitary composed of quantum gates. It should be noted that, to ensure the possibility of a quantum advantage on an unsupervised machine learning task it is necessary (but not sufficient) to establish that the map generated by U ( x ) is sufficiently complex to be non-simulable on a classical computer. Note, B ( H ) refers to the set of all bounded operators on the Hilbert space of quantum states. To each lattice point in the grid is associated a parameterized quantum state ρ ( θ i ) ∈ B ( H ). The θ i 's here, may correspond to the angles in the Pauli-rotation gates. In analogy with the classical SOM, the main objective of the variational QSOM is to learn the topology-preserving map κ ( ρ ( x )) from a high dimensional continuous space B ( H ) to a low-dimensional lattice space L of k neurons

FIG. 2. A snapshot of the variational quantum self-organizing map during the training phase. Analogous to the classical self-organizing map, first the weights are randomly initialized and then the best matching unit (BMU) is found (here, l 18 ) by calculating the Hilbert-Shmidt norm between ρ ( x ) and the quantum states corresponding to the assigned weights { ρ ( θ 1 ) , . . . , ρ ( θ k ) } , see Eq. (13). The weights in the neighbourhood (here represented by a red circle) of the winning neuron are updated using the update rule as specified in Eq. (16).

<!-- image -->

$$\kappa ( \rho ( x ) ) \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { N } \rightarrow \mathcal { B } ( \mathcal { H } ) \rightarrow L .$$

The learning of this mapping, with the help of quantum data, proceeds in three iterative steps as follows. A sample quantum state ρ ( x ) is selected randomly from the given data. The second step comprises of finding the neuron l ∗ , i.e. best matching unit (BMU) , which is closest to ρ ( x ).

$$d \left [ \rho ( x ) , \rho ( \theta _ { i ^ { * } } ^ { t } ) \right ] = \min _ { i } \left \{ d \left [ \rho ( x ) , \rho ( \theta _ { i } ^ { t } ) \right ) \right ] \right \} . \quad ( 1 3 )$$

This is achieved by calculating the Hilbert-Shmidt inner product between ρ ( x ) and the weight vector ρ ( θ i ) associated with each neuron l i ∈ L , as

$$\text {of a} \quad K ( x , \theta _ { i } ) = \text {Tr} [ \rho ( x ) \rho ( \theta _ { i } ) ] = | \langle 0 | U ^ { \dagger } ( x ) U ( \theta _ { i } ) | 0 \rangle | ^ { 2 } . \ \ ( 1 4 )$$

This is a crucial step in our algorithm; where the distance between the two states is estimated on a quantum computer by calculating the transition probability between the two states ρ ( x ) and ρ ( θ i ), as shown in Fig. 3. We also note that, for the unsupervised machine learning tasks, the embedding of the data sample and the weight vectors do not need to be identical. In theory, this algorithm can be used to calculate the overlap between two different quantum feature maps; thus, U = U ′ is merely an exception.

FIG. 3. Quantum circuit to estimate the transition probability between an unknown quantum state and the quantum state corresponding to a neuron. The goal of this architecture is to calculate the degree of overlap with each neuron's weights and identify the one that generates the highest number of '0 . . . 0' bitstrings.

<!-- image -->

In a manner analogous to that of the kernelized selforganized map, the rule that governs the weights (i.e. angles in the parametrized quantum gates) update process is given as

$$\theta _ { i } ^ { t + 1 } = \theta _ { i } ^ { t } - \alpha ^ { t } h ^ { t } \left ( \frac { \partial } { \partial \theta } K ( \theta , \theta ) \Big | _ { \theta _ { i } ^ { t } } - 2 \frac { \partial } { \partial \theta } K ( x , \theta ) \Big | _ { \theta _ { i } ^ { t } } \right ) . \ ( 1 5 ) \quad \text {talls} \quad \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \$$

In those cases where U = U ′ , the first term in Eq. (15) vanishes, since K ( θ , θ ) = 1, and thus the formula is modified to:

$$\theta _ { i } ^ { t + 1 } = \theta _ { i } ^ { t } + 2 \alpha ^ { t } h ^ { t } \frac { \partial } { \partial \theta } K ( x , \theta ) \Big | _ { \theta _ { i } ^ { t } } . \quad ( 1 6 ) \quad \begin{matrix} \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \quad \$$

Similar to the original version of SOM, along with the learning rate α , the neighborhood function is a hyperparameter in the training process; however, in our case, Gaussian functional form is chosen, as given in Eq. (4). The training process results in a map κ ( ρ ) from the highdimensional space B ( H ) to L , which preserves the topological structure present in B ( H ). In the inference phase, the weights are no longer updated, but simply the appropriate BMU l ∗ for a data sample ρ ( x ) is selected. The gradients of the kernel functions, as specified in Eq. (16) can be calculated using the parameter shift rule [53] given by

$$\frac { \partial } { \partial \theta } K ( x , \theta ) \Big | _ { \theta _ { i } ^ { t } } = \frac { K ( x , \theta + \phi ) - K ( x , \theta - \phi ) } { 2 \sin ( \omega \phi ) / \omega } , \quad ( 1 7 ) \quad \text {In} \ \Pr { \quad } \ \text {in} \ \Pr { \quad } \ \text {in} \ \Pr { \quad } \ \text {and} \quad$$

where ω corresponds to the eigenvalues of the Pauli gates.

## IV. NUMERICAL EXPERIMENTS

In order to establish the efficacy of the proposed variational quantum self-organizing map, we employ this algorithm to generate two distinct low-dimensional topologypreserving maps. One map is constructed using classical data, while the other map is constructed using quantum data. In the first scenario, the lower-dimensional map is employed for the purpose of clustering and for creating a low-dimensional topology-preserving representation of the three distinct species of flowers from the Iris data set [54]. In the second scenario, the proposed algorithm is employed to generate a low-dimensional projection map of the state space of a 1 + 1-dimensional lattice gauge theory describing the interaction between electrons and photons, called Schwinger model [55]. The resultant lowdimensional map is employed to distinguish between two distinct phases of the model.

## A. Variational QSOM on Iris data

The Iris dataset, developed by Ronald Fisher, is widely recognized and frequently employed within the machine learning field. The dataset comprises of 150 samples and 4 features. The dataset contains 50 samples from each of the three Iris species, namely Iris setosa, Iris virginica, and Iris versicolor. The four features provide data on the measurements of the sepals and petals, specifically their length and width, for each sample. The dataset also contains an appropriate label which corresponds to a particular type of the species of the Iris flower. However, note that, we do not use this label during the training phase. Our primary aim, in fact, is to evaluate the unsupervised learning capability of the algorithm which utilizes only the raw features of the data. In the training phase the algorithm is trained to generate hidden clusters in the data set, and in the inference phase a test sample is assigned to an appropriate cluster. The resultant cluster label is then compared against the corresponding label for that sample.

For the data encoding of the classical data vector and the weight vector into the quantum states, we utilize ZZFeatureMap available in Qiskit [56]. We use the nearest neighbour (i.e. 'pairwise') entanglement. The corresponding unitary is given as

$$U _ { \Phi ( x ) } = U ( x ) H ^ { \otimes n } ,$$

where

$$U ( x ) = \exp \left ( i \sum _ { i } \phi ( x _ { i } ) Z _ { i } + i \sum _ { < i j > } \phi ^ { \prime } ( x _ { i } , x _ { j } ) Z _ { i } Z _ { j } \right ) .$$

In principle, it is possible to customize the functions ϕ and ϕ ′ ; however, in our experiments, we use ϕ ( x i ) = 2 x i and ϕ ′ ( x i , x i +1 ) = 2( x i -π )( x i +1 -π ). The input data is scaled from -1 to 1. It is conjectured that for such a map, the transition probability |⟨ Ψ( θ i ) | Ψ( x ) ⟩| 2 (i.e. the overlap between the input quantum state and the quantum state parametrized by the weight vector), which can be estimated on a quantum computer relatively easily, is hard to evaluate on a classical computer [57].

The output layer in our architecture consists of 36 neurons arranged in a grid of size (6 , 6). The weight vectors on each of the nodes in the output layer are randomly initialized, with each component taking values within the range of -π/ 2 to π/ 2. The learning rate α ( t ) is initialized to 1 and decreased with an exponential pre-factor (which depends on the number of training iterations) during the training process. Similarly, the variance σ , which determines the extent of interaction between neighboring neurons, is initially set to 5 and iteratively reduced with an iteration-dependent exponentially decreasing pre-factor. The algorithm is trained on 500 randomly picked samples from the entire dataset. Note that this step necessitates the repetition of some of the samples. During the validation phase, the assignment of data samples to the relevant clusters is accomplished by identifying the matching BMU for each sample.

FIG. 4. The variational quantum self-organizing map (variational QSOM) for the Iris dataset not only performs classification of distinct flowers, but also maintains the topological structure of the Hilbert space in the reduced-dimensional representation, that is the map maintains the topological characteristics of the original data by grouping together the quantum states from the same class.

<!-- image -->

The resultant two-dimensional map from the validation phase is shown in Fig. 4. The map exhibits a clear capacity to differentiate and categorize the groupings of 3 different species of the Iris flower. Furthermore, the map effectively maintains the topological characteristics of the original data by grouping together samples with similar attributes on adjacent nodes in the output layer. It is crucial to emphasize that the labels were not included as an input to the algorithm, but are instead provided here for the purpose of facilitating comparison. In Fig. 5, we also display the numerical values of the four components of the weight vectors at the beginning of the training process and the corresponding numerical values at the end of the training process. Such smoother patterns of the numerical values of the components are characteristic of the trained self-organizing maps.

FIG. 5. (a) The numerical values of the four components of the weight vectors at the beginning of the training process. (b) Corresponding numerical values at the end of the training process.

<!-- image -->

## B. Variational QSOM on lattice Schwinger model

The Schwinger model plays a significant role in the field of high-energy physics due to its similarities to the quantum theory that describes the interactions between quarks and gluons, i.e. quantum chromodynamics. These similarities include phenomena such as spontaneous symmetry breaking, fermion confinement, charge shielding, and the presence of a topological θ vacuum. Furthermore, it serves as an ideal model for evaluating the effectiveness of quantum computers in examining the static and dynamical properties of lattice gauge theories [58-65].

The Schwinger model is an abelian gauge theory in 1+1 dimensions, where the gauge group U (1) governs the interaction between fermions and gauge bosons. It serves as a theoretical framework to illustrate the well-known Schwinger mechanism, a phenomenon characterized by the spontaneous generation of particle-antiparticle pairs in the presence of strong electric field [55]. Coleman established that the massive Schwinger model displays a phase transition at θ = π occurring at a critical point determined by certain values of m (fermion mass) and g (coupling constant) [66]. In this study, we utilize the variational quantum self-organizing map to distinguish between the two distinct phases characterized by this phase transition.

The problem of classifying the two distinct phases of the Schwinger model using quantum machine learning techniques has been previously investigated by K¨ uhn et al. [58]. However, the primary distinction between our methodology and theirs is the implementation of an unsupervised machine learning strategy in our approach, which does not necessitate the presence of labels. Nevertheless, our framework for data generation closely follows the one described in [58]. We describe the process of data generation below. The Lagrangian of the Schwinger model is given by:

$$\mathcal { L } = \psi ( i \gamma ^ { \mu } D _ { \mu } - m ) \psi - \frac { 1 } { 4 } F _ { \mu \nu } F ^ { \mu \nu } + \frac { g \theta } { 4 \pi } \epsilon _ { \mu \nu } F ^ { \mu \nu } , \quad ( 2 0 )$$

where ψ corresponds to the fermion field, D µ = ∂ µ + igA µ is the covariane derivative, and A µ corresponds to the gauge field. The coupling constant g governs the strength of the interation between the fermions and gauge bosons, m is the fermion mass, and F µν corresponds to the electromagnetic tensor. The lattice implementation of the Schwinger model can be achieved by employing the staggered fermion techniques [67]. After the JordanWigner transformation the Hamiltonian of the Schwinger model is given by

$$H = J \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { N _ { s } - 2 } \left ( \sum _ { i = 0 } ^ { n } \frac { Z + ( - 1 ) ^ { i } } { 2 } + \frac { \theta } { 2 \pi } \right ) ^ { 2 } & & \text {tupl on} \\ + \frac { w } { 2 } \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { N _ { s } - 2 } [ X _ { n } X _ { n + 1 } + Y _ { n } Y _ { n + 1 } ] + \frac { m } { 2 } \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { N _ { s } - 1 } ( - 1 ) ^ { n } Z _ { n } . & & \text {topol} \\ & & \text {topol} \\ & & \text {dimem} \\ & & \text {the t he}$$

The Hamiltonian (with N s = 4, i.e. 4 spatial lattice sites) is diagonalized in order to derive the lowest eigenstates corresponding to a specific value of the ratio m / g . The eigenstates are then labeled based on the order parameter that governs the phase transition of the Schwinger model, i.e. the expectation value of an averaged electric field

$$E = \frac { 1 } { N } \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { N - 1 } \sum _ { n = 0 } ^ { N - 1 } \frac { Z _ { i } + ( - 1 ) ^ { i } } { 2 } . \quad \quad ( 2 2 ) \quad \stackrel { \text {rad} } { \log } \\$$

If ⟨ E ⟩ = 0, then the corresponding state is labeled as class '0'. Conversely, if ⟨ E ⟩ &gt; 0, it is denoted as the class '1'. It is crucial to emphasize that, similar to the unsupervised learning of the Iris dataset previously described, the labels are not included as input to the algorithm; instead, they are provided for the purpose of comparison.

We observe that the variational quantum selforganizing map (variational QSOM) not only performs classification of distinct phases, but also maintains the topological structure of the Hilbert space in the reduceddimensional representation, that is, the map maintains the topological characteristics of the original data by grouping together the quantum states from the same phase, as shown in Fig. 6.

FIG. 6. The variational quantum self-organizing map (variational QSOM) of the Schwinger model not only performs classification of distinct phases, but also maintains the topological structure of the Hilbert space in the reduced-dimensional representation, that is the map maintains the topological characteristics of the original data by grouping together the quantum states from the same phase. The legends 'Below critical field' and 'Above critial field' refer to states with ⟨ E ⟩ = 0 and ⟨ E ⟩ &gt; 0, respectively.

<!-- image -->

## V. DISCUSSION

In this article, we have proposed a novel quantum neural network architecture for unsupervised machine learning of classical and quantum data on a near-term quantum computer. The architecture underlying the proposed quantum neural network is inspired by and based on Kohonen's self-organizing map (SOM). The proposed algorithm scales linearly in the number of quantum data samples provided that there exists a predefined number of quantum states parametrized by the weight vectors in the output layer of SOM. We have demonstrated the unsupervised learning capability of the proposed quantum algorithm by creating low-dimensional representation maps for both classical and quantum datasets. The algorithm generates lower-dimensional maps that preserve the topo- logical properties by clustering quantum states of the same classes. It is important to note that multiple steps of this algorithm can be readily parallelized, including the search for the best matching unit and the inference phase.

Several investigations remain for future exploration. The objective of this article was to elucidate the quantum algorithm; consequently, a comparison with the classical self-organizing map was not conducted. A rigorous comparison with a classical technique can be conducted using many performance indicators, including Fowlkes-Mallows scores [68], Silhouette Coefficient [69], Davies-Bouldin Index [70], and Calinski-Harabasz Index [71]. In terms of these scores, it would be insightful to compare the classical version of the self-organizing maps, as well as other classical clustering and dimensionality reduction techniques, to the variational quantum self-organizing map. Additionally, the efficiency and effectiveness of our algorithm may be enhanced by utilizing projected quantum kernels instead of fidelity kernels, as they exhibit greater geometric differences than fidelity-based kernels [72]. An additional intriguing topic that merits further investigation is the relationship and contrast between the classical shadows formalism and our approach, along with its implications for supervised and unsupervised machine learning tasks [73].

- [1] Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville, Deep Learning (MIT Press, 2016) http://www.deeplearningbook.org .
- [2] J¨ urgen Schmidhuber, 'Deep learning in neural networks: An overview,' Neural Networks 61 , 85-117 (2015).
- [3] Guangyu Robert Yang and Xiao-Jing Wang, 'Artificial neural networks for neuroscientists: A primer,' Neuron 107 , 1048-1070 (2020).
- [4] H. K. D. H. Bhadeshia, 'Neural networks in materials science,' ISIJ International 39 , 966-979 (1999).
- [5] Manuel Woschank, Erwin Rauch, and Helmut Zsifkovits, 'A review of further directions for artificial intelligence, machine learning, and deep learning in smart logistics,' Sustainability 12 (2020), 10.3390/su12093760.
- [6] Jian Huang, Junyi Chai, and Stella Cho, 'Deep learning in finance and banking: A literature review and classification,' Frontiers of Business Research in China 14 , 13 (2020).
- [7] James B Heaton, Nick G Polson, and Jan Hendrik Witte, 'Deep learning for finance: deep portfolios,' Applied Stochastic Models in Business and Industry 33 , 3-12 (2017).
- [8] William B. Levy and Oswald Steward, 'Synapses as associative memory elements in the hippocampal formation,' Brain Research 175 , 233-245 (1979).
- [9] Tim VP Bliss and Graham L Collingridge, 'A synaptic model of memory: long-term potentiation in the hippocampus,' Nature 361 , 31-39 (1993).
- [10] James L McClelland, Bruce L McNaughton, and Randall C O'Reilly, 'Why there are complementary learning systems in the hippocampus and neocortex: insights

The variational quantum self-organizing map's applicability may offer a better understanding of the distinct phases of quantum many-body systems. Nevertheless, it remains to be determined whether quantum kernels provide a competitive advantage over classical kernels in relation to classical datasets [74]. Lastly, the efficacy of the algorithm as the number of qubits increases and the impact of noise from its implementation on quantum hardware are topics that require further investigation.

## VI. ACKNOWLEDGMENT

Numerous discussions with Benjamin Boor and Nicolas Robles were pivotal in the preliminary stages of the algorithm's formulation. The author expresses gratitude to Kunal Sharma, Shashanka Ubaru, Vladimir Rastunkov, Das Pemmaraju, Jae-Eun Park, Brian Quanz, Vaibhaw Kumar, and Daniel Fry for their constructive talks on these subjects.

IBM, the IBM logo, and ibm.com are trademarks of International Business Machines Corp., registered in many jurisdictions worldwide. Other product and service names might be trademarks of IBM or other companies. The current list of IBM trademarks is available at https://www.ibm.com/legal/copytrade .

from the successes and failures of connectionist models of learning and memory.' Psychological review 102 , 419 (1995).

- [11] [John T Schmidt, Self-Organizing Neural Maps: The Retinotectal Map and Mechanisms of Neural Development (Academic Press, 2020).](http://dx.doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/C2018-0-04121-3)
- [12] Teuvo Kohonen, 'Self-organized formation of topologically correct feature maps,' Biological cybernetics 43 , 59-69 (1982).
- [13] T. Kohonen, 'The self-organizing map,' Proceedings of the IEEE 78 , 1464-1480 (1990).
- [14] T. Kohonen, E. Oja, O. Simula, A. Visa, and J. Kangas, 'Engineering applications of the self-organizing map,' Proceedings of the IEEE 84 , 1358-1384 (1996).
- [15] Guido Deboeck and Teuvo Kohonen, Visual explorations in finance: with self-organizing maps (Springer Science &amp; Business Media, 2013).
- [16] A.M. Kalteh, P. Hjorth, and R. Berndtsson, 'Review of the self-organizing map (som) approach in water resources: Analysis, modelling and application,' Environmental Modelling &amp; Software 23 , 835-845 (2008).
- [17] Sabine McConnell, Robert Sturgeon, Gregory Henry, Andrew Mayne, and Richard Hurley, 'Scalability of self-organizing maps on a gpu cluster using opencl and cuda,' Journal of Physics: Conference Series 341 , 012018 (2012).
- [18] Peter Wittek, Shi Chao Gao, Ik Soo Lim, and Li Zhao, 'somoclu: An efficient parallel library for self-organizing maps,' Journal of Statistical Software 78 , 1-21 (2017).
- [19] Richard D. Lawrence, George S. Almasi, and Holly E. Rushmeier, 'A scalable parallel algorithm for self-

organizing maps with applications to sparse data mining problems,' Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 3 , 171-195 (1999).

- [20] Jacob Biamonte, Peter Wittek, Nicola Pancotti, Patrick Rebentrost, Nathan Wiebe, and Seth Lloyd, 'Quantum machine learning,' Nature 549 , 195-202 (2017).
- [21] Marco Cerezo, Guillaume Verdon, Hsin-Yuan Huang, Lukasz Cincio, and Patrick J Coles, 'Challenges and opportunities in quantum machine learning,' Nature Computational Science 2 , 567-576 (2022).
- [22] Yunchao Liu, Srinivasan Arunachalam, and Kristan Temme, 'A rigorous and robust quantum speed-up in supervised machine learning,' Nature Physics 17 , 10131017 (2021).
- [23] Patrick Rebentrost, Masoud Mohseni, and Seth Lloyd, 'Quantum support vector machine for big data classification,' Phys. Rev. Lett. 113 , 130503 (2014).
- [24] Hsin-Yuan Huang, Michael Broughton, Jordan Cotler, Sitan Chen, Jerry Li, Masoud Mohseni, Hartmut Neven, Ryan Babbush, Richard Kueng, John Preskill, et al. , 'Quantum advantage in learning from experiments,' Science 376 , 1182-1186 (2022).
- [25] Maria Schuld and Nathan Killoran, 'Is quantum advantage the right goal for quantum machine learning?' PRX Quantum 3 , 030101 (2022).
- [26] Anurag Anshu and Srinivasan Arunachalam, 'A survey on the complexity of learning quantum states,' Nature Reviews Physics , 1-11 (2023).
- [27] Vojtˇ ech Havl´ ıˇ cek, Antonio D C´ orcoles, Kristan Temme, Aram W Harrow, Abhinav Kandala, Jerry M Chow, and Jay M Gambetta, 'Supervised learning with quantumenhanced feature spaces,' Nature 567 , 209-212 (2019).
- [28] Maria Schuld and Nathan Killoran, 'Quantum machine learning in feature hilbert spaces,' Phys. Rev. Lett. 122 , 040504 (2019).
- [29] Stefano Mensa, Emre Sahin, Francesco Tacchino, Panagiotis Kl Barkoutsos, and Ivano Tavernelli, 'Quantum machine learning framework for virtual screening in drug discovery: a prospective quantum advantage,' Machine Learning: Science and Technology 4 , 015023 (2023).
- [30] David Peral-Garc´ ıa, Juan Cruz-Benito, and Francisco Jos´ e Garc´ ıa-Pe˜ nalvo, 'Systematic literature review: Quantum machine learning and its applications,' Computer Science Review 51 , 100619 (2024).
- [31] Yao Zhang and Qiang Ni, 'Recent advances in quantum machine learning,' Quantum Engineering 2 , e34 (2020).
- [32] Yuxuan Du, Xinbiao Wang, Naixu Guo, Zhan Yu, Yang Qian, Kaining Zhang, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Patrick Rebentrost, and Dacheng Tao, 'Quantum machine learning: A hands-on tutorial for machine learning practitioners and researchers,' arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.01146 (2025).
- [33] Seth Lloyd, Masoud Mohseni, and Patrick Rebentrost, 'Quantum algorithms for supervised and unsupervised machine learning,' arXiv preprint arXiv:1307.0411 (2013).
- [34] Esma A¨ ımeur, Gilles Brassard, and S´ ebastien Gambs, 'Quantum speed-up for unsupervised learning,' Machine Learning 90 , 261-287 (2013).
- [35] Seth Lloyd, Masoud Mohseni, and Patrick Rebentrost, 'Quantum principal component analysis,' Nature Physics 10 , 631-633 (2014).
- [36] Iordanis Kerenidis, Jonas Landman, Alessandro Luongo, and Anupam Prakash, 'q-means: A quantum algorithm for unsupervised machine learning,' in Advances in Neu-

ral Information Processing Systems , Vol. 32, edited by H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. d ' Alch´ eBuc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett (Curran Associates, Inc., 2019).

- [37] Yoshiaki Kawase, Kosuke Mitarai, and Keisuke Fujii, 'Parametric t-stochastic neighbor embedding with quantum neural network,' Phys. Rev. Res. 4 , 043199 (2022).
- [38] David Gross, Yi-Kai Liu, Steven T. Flammia, Stephen Becker, and Jens Eisert, 'Quantum state tomography via compressed sensing,' Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 , 150401 (2010).
- [39] Juan Carrasquilla, Giacomo Torlai, Roger G Melko, and Leandro Aolita, 'Reconstructing quantum states with generative models,' Nature Machine Intelligence 1 , 155161 (2019).
- [40] Giacomo Torlai, Guglielmo Mazzola, Juan Carrasquilla, Matthias Troyer, Roger Melko, and Giuseppe Carleo, 'Neural-network quantum state tomography,' Nature Physics 14 , 447-450 (2018).
- [41] Teresa Sancho-Lorente, Juan Rom´ an-Roche, and David Zueco, 'Quantum kernels to learn the phases of quantum matter,' Phys. Rev. A 105 , 042432 (2022).
- [42] Lei Wang, 'Discovering phase transitions with unsupervised learning,' Phys. Rev. B 94 , 195105 (2016).
- [43] Sebastian J. Wetzel, 'Unsupervised learning of phase transitions: From principal component analysis to variational autoencoders,' Phys. Rev. E 96 , 022140 (2017).
- [44] Jielin Wang, Wanzhou Zhang, Tian Hua, and Tzu-Chieh Wei, 'Unsupervised learning of topological phase transitions using the calinski-harabaz index,' Phys. Rev. Res. 3 , 013074 (2021).
- [45] Rui Wang, Yu-Gang Ma, R Wada, Lie-Wen Chen, WanBing He, Huan-Ling Liu, and Kai-Jia Sun, 'Nuclear liquid-gas phase transition with machine learning,' Physical Review Research 2 , 043202 (2020).
- [46] Qi Ni, Ming Tang, Ying Liu, and Ying-Cheng Lai, 'Machine learning dynamical phase transitions in complex networks,' Physical Review E 100 , 052312 (2019).
- [47] Albert A. Shirinyan, Valerii K. Kozin, Johan Hellsvik, Manuel Pereiro, Olle Eriksson, and Dmitry Yudin, 'Selforganizing maps as a method for detecting phase transitions and phase identification,' Phys. Rev. B 99 , 041108 (2019).
- [48] DO Hebb, 'The organization of behaviour (hoboken, nj),' (1949).
- [49] David H Ackley, Geoffrey E Hinton, and Terrence J Sejnowski, 'A learning algorithm for boltzmann machines,' Cognitive science 9 , 147-169 (1985).
- [50] James A Anderson, An introduction to neural networks (MIT press, 1995).
- [51] [Peter Andras, 'Kernel-kohonen networks,' International Journal of Neural Systems 12 , 117-135 (2002).](http://dx.doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1142/S0129065702001084)
- [52] Thomas Hofmann, Bernhard Sch¨ olkopf, and Alexander J. Smola, 'Kernel methods in machine learning,' The Annals of Statistics 36 , 1171 - 1220 (2008).
- [53] David Wierichs, Josh Izaac, Cody Wang, and Cedric Yen-Yu Lin, 'General parameter-shift rules for quantum gradients,' Quantum 6 , 677 (2022).
- [54] R. A. Fisher, 'Iris,' UCI Machine Learning Repository (1988).
- [55] Julian Schwinger, 'Gauge invariance and mass. ii,' Phys. Rev. 128 , 2425-2429 (1962).
- [56] [Qiskit contributors, 'Qiskit: An open-source framework for quantum computing,' (2021).](http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2573505)

- [57] Michael J Bremner, Richard Jozsa, and Dan J Shepherd, 'Classical simulation of commuting quantum computations implies collapse of the polynomial hierarchy,' Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences 467 , 459-472 (2011).
- [58] Stefan K¨ uhn, J. Ignacio Cirac, and Mari-Carmen Ba˜ nuls, 'Quantum simulation of the schwinger model: A study of feasibility,' Phys. Rev. A 90 , 042305 (2014).
- [59] P. Hauke, D. Marcos, M. Dalmonte, and P. Zoller, 'Quantum simulation of a lattice schwinger model in a chain of trapped ions,' Phys. Rev. X 3 , 041018 (2013).
- [60] Christian Kokail, Christine Maier, Rick van Bijnen, Tiff Brydges, Manoj K Joshi, Petar Jurcevic, Christine A Muschik, Pietro Silvi, Rainer Blatt, Christian F Roos, et al. , 'Self-verifying variational quantum simulation of lattice models,' Nature 569 , 355-360 (2019).
- [61] Wibe A. de Jong, Kyle Lee, James Mulligan, Mateusz Pglyph[suppress] losko´ n, Felix Ringer, and Xiaojun Yao, 'Quantum simulation of nonequilibrium dynamics and thermalization in the schwinger model,' Phys. Rev. D 106 , 054508 (2022).
- [62] Nhung H. Nguyen, Minh C. Tran, Yingyue Zhu, Alaina M. Green, C. Huerta Alderete, Zohreh Davoudi, and Norbert M. Linke, 'Digital quantum simulation of the schwinger model and symmetry protection with trapped ions,' PRX Quantum 3 , 020324 (2022).
- [63] Roland C Farrell, Marc Illa, Anthony N Ciavarella, and Martin J Savage, 'Scalable circuits for preparing ground states on digital quantum computers: The schwinger model vacuum on 100 qubits,' arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.04481 (2023).
- [64] Martin J Savage, 'Quantum computing for nuclear physics,' arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.07617 (2023).
- [65] Takis Angelides, Pranay Naredi, Arianna Crippa, Karl

Jansen, Stefan K¨ uhn, Ivano Tavernelli, and Derek S Wang, 'First-order phase transition of the schwinger model with a quantum computer,' arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.12831 (2023).

- [66] Sidney Coleman, 'More about the massive schwinger model,' Annals of Physics 101 , 239-267 (1976).
- [67] John Kogut and Leonard Susskind, 'Hamiltonian formulation of wilson's lattice gauge theories,' Phys. Rev. D 11 , 395-408 (1975).
- [68] E. B. Fowlkes and C. L. Mallows and, 'A method for comparing two hierarchical clusterings,' Journal of the American Statistical Association 78 , 553-569 (1983).
- [69] Peter J. Rousseeuw, 'Silhouettes: A graphical aid to the interpretation and validation of cluster analysis,' Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics 20 , 53-65 (1987).
- [70] [David L. Davies and Donald W. Bouldin, 'A cluster separation measure,' IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence PAMI-1 , 224-227 (1979).](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.1979.4766909)
- [71] T. Cali´ nski and J Harabasz and, 'A dendrite method for cluster analysis,' Communications in Statistics 3 , 1-27 (1974).
- [72] Hsin-Yuan Huang, Michael Broughton, Masoud Mohseni, Ryan Babbush, Sergio Boixo, Hartmut Neven, and Jarrod R McClean, 'Power of data in quantum machine learning,' Nature communications 12 , 2631 (2021).
- [73] Hsin-Yuan Huang, Richard Kueng, Giacomo Torlai, Victor V. Albert, and John Preskill, 'Provably efficient machine learning for quantum many-body problems,' Science 377 , eabk3333 (2022).
- [74] Roberto Fl´ orez Ablan, Marco Roth, and Jan Schnabel, 'On the similarity of bandwidth-tuned quantum kernels and classical kernels,' arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.05602 (2025).